# Text Encoder Transform 

Please see the set of
[transform project conventions](../../../README.md#transform-project-conventions)
for details on general project conventions, transform configuration,
testing and IDE set up.

## Contributors

- Michele Dolfi (dol@zurich.ibm.com)

## Description 

This transform is using [sentence encoder models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentence_embedding) to create embedding vectors of the text in each row of the input .parquet table.

The embeddings vectors generated by the transform are useful for tasks like sentence similarity, features extraction, etc which are also at the core of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) applications.

### Input 

| input column name | data type | description |
|-|-|-|
| the one specified in _content_column_name_ configuration | string | the content used in this transform |


### Output columns


| output column name | data type | description |
|-|-|-|
| the one specified in _output_embeddings_column_name_ configuration | `array[float]` | the embeddings vectors of the content |


## Configuration

The transform can be tuned with the following parameters.


| Parameter  | Default  | Description  |
|------------|----------|--------------|
| `model_name`                    | `BAAI/bge-small-en-v1.5` | The HF model to use for encoding the text. |
| `content_column_name`           | `contents` | Name of the column containing the text to be encoded. |
| `output_embeddings_column_name` | `embeddings` | Column name to store the embeddings in the output table. |


## Usage

### Launched Command Line Options 

When invoking the CLI, the parameters must be set as `--text_encoder_<name>`, e.g. `--text_encoder_column_name_key=myoutput`.


### Running the samples
To run the samples, use the following `make` targets

* `run-cli-sample` - runs src/text_encoder_transform.py using command line args
* `run-local-sample` - runs src/text_encoder_local.py

These targets will activate the virtual environment and set up any configuration needed.
Use the `-n` option of `make` to see the detail of what is done to run the sample.

For example, 
```shell
make run-cli-sample
...
```
Then 
```shell
ls output
```
To see results of the transform.

### Code example

TBD (link to the notebook will be provided)


### Transforming data using the transform image

To use the transform image to transform your data, please refer to the 
[running images quickstart](../../../../doc/quick-start/run-transform-image.md),
substituting the name of this transform image and runtime as appropriate.

## Testing

Following [the testing strategy of data-processing-lib](../../../../data-processing-lib/doc/transform-testing.md)

Currently we have:
- [Unit test](test/test_text_encoder_python.py)